In the last section we introduce this concept of state inside of our components state is the concept
that we use for updating the data that our components show over time as the user starts to like kind
of click around or whenever we start to load some data or any type of update to our application.
At this point we've had a little bit of a discussion about state and written some code around it in
the section I want to expand more on the idea of state and exactly how our component is now working.
Now that we've introduced state so let's pull up a diagram.
So this is an updated connect timeline of what's going on inside the application.
And I know the text is small.
Look at this.
It is going to mingle with some of the sizing real quick.
All right.
That's all that were legible.
OK.
So again this is the time line.
We went over this previously but about it in a couple more steps.
Now that are colored in green.
So now we can walk through the timeline of our application.
So again our application boot up app shows to the screen the app renders itself had an album list.
And now when album list gets created it gets an initial state of albums being an empty array.
So when the thing first boots up albums is an empty array.
The album list says OK I'm being rendered technical.
The phone will mount blah blah blah.
Makes the HTP request and then it's rendered method is called and it appears on the screen so the list
is rendering.
One time when its state is still equal to an empty array.
And we were able to confirm that because our console log over here in Krome we saw Hey Alban's is an
empty array and we have placed that console log inside of our render method.
So clearly the render method is getting called at least one time here before anybody that has been fetched.
So then some time passes while law and r h t t h t t appear close to the real returns some amount of
Jason data to our component.
And so now here's where the magic happens.
We have a request handler that calls set state and it says hey component here is some new state for
you.
Here is the complete entire list of Alban's because we call set state and we update our components state
the component just album list not the app not the header just album list instantly gets re rendered
to the screen.
So the second time the render method is called We now have our list of albums and we were able to confirm
that with our console log in.
Here is the list of the five albums.
So the point here.
The whole point of this is that now we can write our render method in such a way that it assumes that
there is some amount of data available as this state done albums and that is how we are going to write
a component that is going to show a list of data or some amount of data that we fetch asynchronously.
So when we are using state the concept of state to fetch some data to show to our users so let's do
a quick review of state.
And then we will update our component actually you know so some good stuff on the screen.
So I just one last thing I want to go over some rules of state.
So first off I've kind of skirted around what the real definition of is for state and I've just been
saying state state state I can say that all day I guess but it doesn't really make any sense until I
give you a plain text definition.
So here we go.
Definition of state a plain javascript object that is available to class based components only that
is used to record and respond to user triggered events.
And so that last part here user triggered events or use kind of kind of lightly kind of freely.
If you think about it a component loading up kind of is a you know I don't know kind of a user triggering
event.
It's something that the user you know they launched the app on their device.
They you know they triggered it.
And we now know that the user just requested some amount of data and we now need to show it to them.
So think about state whenever you want to update your component in some fashion because of a user trigger
event.
Now the second rule I want you to be aware of right now is that whenever we need to update what a component
shows whenever we want to re render in some fashion we are going to call set state.
That is what we use that state for when we call said state the component instantly renders.
So whenever we want to update what it shows you got to be thinking state.
And I'm going to just again and again and again I'm going to be throughout the rest of course I'm saying
OK you know we need to we need to update the component we need to show something new.
What should we be using here.
And then you at home ideally you're going to say oh yes we should be using state.
And then you know we're going to stay around me really happy.
So I'm going to keep doing that throughout the course next last rule talked about we only change our
state.
We only make updates to it with the method set state.
We do not do this dot state and I guess I'd kind of dropped my thought there.
Oh no it's on there.
It's just not showing up.
We do not do something like this.
State equals 1 2 3.
Can we never modify a property directly.
We always call set state whenever we want to update our community.
OK let's say here that I did not actually put on this slide is the difference between state and prop's
this is something that people really get messed up or kind of confused over time the difference between
the prop system and the state system.
So I'm going to give you a lot of guidance as we go through the course of that which you don't want
to use.
But let me just say right now to give you a general rule of thumb whenever we want to communicate from
a parent component to a child component we use props.
OK.
So props is for parent to child communication States.
On the other hand is for four components internal recordkeeping that is the purpose of state.
We use state whenever we want to update some amount of data over time whenever we pass component or
tease me data from a parent or child.
Then in this process that is the difference between the two.
And again I will point out just a ton.
You know when we should be using one of the other are.
So that is just a ton of lecturing a ton of lecturing about state.
I think we're in a pretty good spot now with state and fetching data all that kind of good stuff.
So let's continue in the next section and we are going to work on making some nice looking albums to
show the user.
My second album components to show the user.
So let's continue in the next section by making use of this new albums data that we've now fetched